>> Marcy: Let's do an exercise
on debugging some webpages.
We went through some steps earlier,
so here they are recapped.
We're gonna test with the keyboard,
can we reach, operate, and
see every focused interactive control.
So things that mouse users can do,
can we do that with the keyboard.
We're gonna use Browser DevTools and
extensions,
including axe,
the Accessibility Inspector, and
Chrome DevTools itself,
we'll zoom in and test Reflow.
We probably won't fire up a screen reader
at this point just for time purposes,
but that is something that I put kind of
further down the list to do regularly.
We'll look at things like motion and
color contrast,
some of which will come up in
things like the axe extension.
And then if I'm checking things kind
of broadly, if there's any videos or
media, I make a note to ask my team for
captions and transcripts.
Cuz if nobody brings it up,
it might never ever get included
on the site, and
then someone is totally excluded.
So better late than never to say, hey, we
need to generate some captioned content.
So I have some sites that we could try,
if you have a site that you're working on
that's probably a great
thing to check out and
get a picture on what's
happening on the site.
But I have some different categories here,
I love music, so
I was gonna test SoundCloud.
News websites are notoriously terrible,
e-commerce,
there's some great that could use help.
Target's actually pretty
good cuz they were sued,
and so
it's become part of their regular process.
Productivity apps like Google Docs, I
have a Google Doc that you can check out.
And those apps are really advanced,
like the Google Drive applications,
they put a lot of effort into
accessibility, bless them.
They're putting in the effort, we'll have
to ask users how is it working for them.
But there are some really cool
accessibility techniques in
some of those apps.
>> Marcy: So, let's open up an app and
test it, let's test SoundCloud.
>> Marcy: Hopefully it
won't just start playing.
So I follow a lot of record labels,
I listen to music all the time,
and so
I have a ton of content saved in here.
I like that it has lots of
interactive components on it, so
it's got lots of links.
First step, I hit the tab key,
I do not see a focus style.
So interestingly enough,
I mentioned earlier I made a blog
of wins called Accessibility Wins.
And this is the first site I gave
a win to, and it has degraded for
accessibility since then.
I have to recall that win, I think,
unfortunately, teams change,
software changes.
So the focus style on the feed
button is very faint,
it went from gray on
gray to white on gray,
that is not sufficient at all for
a focus style.
We should just show an outline, something
that has enough contrast from the items
around it that you can tell what is focus,
cuz that's just not really acceptable.
So if I keep tabbing,
now I'm in the search box,
I can skip, I think maybe
the search button is focusable.
So the first thing I'm gonna go inspect,
so
I'm gonna go inspect why I had
a tab stop that I couldn't see.
So I'm gonna do control-click,
inspect, and
I'll make the DevTools
a little bit bigger.
So this button over here, I see I've
got the input, I've got a button,
and in Chrome DevTools, in this
little hover, I can click on focus.
There's our first big
keyboard accessibility issue,
there is an outline of zero on these
elements, looks like header search submit.
So they were very specific
about suppressing the focus
style on this button.
If I uncheck that,
there's probably another one somewhere,
cuz I don't see a focus style.
So there might be multiple things
that are causing this, and
I'd have to go digging, cuz it should
just show a focus style, but it's not.
Sometimes focus might not
be the pseudo selector,
maybe focus visible could be another one.
That's a newer selector that tries to
exclude mouse focus from keyboard focus,
it can be pretty helpful sometimes.
Wait, that worked, I just noticed,
when I selected focus visible,
I did get the default outline,
so there you go.
But that's an issue that I can surface
pretty quickly just by tabbing and
then inspecting the CSS for a given
element cuz that should be focusable.
It should show style, so
I can see where I am.
This blue border doesn't look great
because there's no padding on the icon.
So if I put padding on it in the button,
it will add a little bit of space
around the icon so I can see around it.
And you can even do
a custom focus style too,
you don't have to use the default one but
it is pretty handy.
So I'm gonna reset that and I'm gonna
click back in that search field just so
I know that my keyboard focus is in
the browser and not in the DevTools.
And I'm gonna keep tabbing,
get to some other widgets.
So a real lack of focus styles
that are visible on some of these,
like a little carrot changing color
to white, that's just not sufficient.
But it is accessible otherwise,
I can hit Enter and
open this little profile thing,
I can tab into these items.
It does some wrapping so
my focus goes around, that's pretty cool.
I think I can hit escape and
go back, the bones are there.
There's some tweaks that they could make,
they did make that component, at least
keyboard accessible except for the focus
style kind of not really being sufficient.
So that's good news though, right?
It's like something we can work with that,
we don't have to completely rip it out and
start over,
it might just be some simple CSS fixes.
So let's run axe on this,
we'll see what kind of issues it finds.
When I ran it earlier,
there were a ton, I think 248 or
something, so it's got quite a few issues.
Best practices are on,
if I turn those off, that was only a few.
So the difference there is that best
practices are things like landmark
elements that are great,
but not totally required.
Whereas WCAG violations are the things
that you should fix first.
Those are the ones that, if you were sued,
they wouldn't sue you over best practices,
basically.
But there's lots of
interesting things in here,
like elements must only
use permitted ARIA rolls.
So one reason why I mentioned kind of
taking a pause before slapping ARIA on
everything is there's some
requirements that you kind of have
to learn everything related
to a given RNA attribute.
Are there other roles that
it has to work with or
certain roles that it's required or
it will only work with.
So this one is complaining that you
can't use ARIA label on a span.
And actually this is a typo, so
aria-role is not an attribute.
It's close, it's role image.
So like,
that's a really subtle error that,
if I was scanning it with my eyes,
maybe I would catch that.
But the computer's pretty good at
pointing this stuff out to us.
And there's probably an issue in here.
About
aria-attributes-must-conform-to-valid-na-
mes.
So yeah, there is a rule in here that will
tell us that aria-role is not a real
attribute cuz we can't make them up.
There's a standard set of role,
states, and properties.
So Axe is doing a really great job
here of surfacing some issues that
are kind of easy mistakes.
I mean, it's an easy fix, but
it's an easy thing to mess up to.
So fortunately,
our tooling is really great.
And it's surfacing that for us now.
So some things about acts
I could point out too,
like if I need to see what element
this is, I can do highlight and
it'll highlight it and the pink up there
on the screen, that can be helpful.
Sometimes it'll report things that are not
even visible, maybe they have screen
reader only on them or something and
just in a state that you didn't expect.
So highlight can help to get you
to that where it is on the page.
And then there's also this
little inspect element.
That one I use a lot.
It'll jump me over to
the elements inspector.
And I can go over here and
look at an element.
We talked earlier about alt text for
images.
So to circle back to that, there's
a tool in here that you must know about.
So over here next to styles
computed layout, etc.
The little carrot icon,
there is an accessibility inspector.
This is your new best friend.
It's amazing, I love this tool.
Here's our next mention of
the accessibility tree.
So this is sort of parallel to the DOM.
It will highlight all of the accessibility
information that is in the DOM.
And for an image.
So this is interesting.
So it's showing us that the role because
that Aria role is not a real attribute.
It should be role.
It will say its role is generic.
Whereas if I change this
to role this will update.
And now it has a role of image.
That was just a soft
edit in the dev tools.
You'd have to go change it
in your real code base, but
I could at least fiddle with
it here in the browser.
And this will show me which thing wins.
So like if I had an aria labeled
by pointing to some other element,
I could see if it worked.
And this is the question about how much
we should test with a screen reader,
you should start with this for
sure, because this is what the screen
reader is going to look at.
It's going to look at the accessibility
tree and all of these computed properties
and everything, you can get most of the
way there just by using this tool and ax.
Like if you clean up all that stuff and do
the debugging, you'll get like pretty far.
So for your alt text like fallback
trying to style that, for
those techniques you could go and inspect
like what is actually getting spit out for
the screen reader like did my technique.
Did I accidentally hide it from
every screen reader user, or
is it actually picking up
the text in the way that I hoped?
So this one's pretty essential.
Yeah, it's amazing to me
how hidden this tool is.
It's so powerful and so helpful.
Now you know what?
It's there, if you didn't already.
Okay, so dev tools, that's super helpful.
If I go back to x, let me zoom this out
at one level, I wanna see some contrast
issues because that is a lot of the
accessibility issues are contrast-related.
And so this says that it
ensures that the foreground and
background colors meet
the minimum contrast ratio.
So depending on the font size,
this is a small font size.
I guess I'm gonna highlight so I know
which element we're talking about here.
It's the orange trigon plus
text on a gray background.
It almost looks like it
could meet the ratio.
So it needs to be 4.5 to 1.
We can calculate the ratio of values.
Is there enough of a difference
that it has a ratio of at least
4.5 to 1 at 14 pixels?
It has to be at least 18 points or
24 pixels to get above
a threshold where it's big enough
that it only has to be 3 to1.
This doesn't meet that size threshold, so
it has to be 4.51, and it's only 3.941.
So that's pretty close, but not quite.
So we would want to go in, in this case,
it's kind of tough because that's
the SoundCloud orange on the gray banner.
So our options are make the orange
darker or make the gray lighter.
I don't know,
I guess that's kind of a mind bender.
what direction do you have to go?
You'd have to change those colors,
maybe we can fiddle with it.
So what I wanna try is see if I can change
the orange just enough to get to that 4.5
to 1,
because sometimes that's the solution.
If it's off enough, or you have to make it
brown and it looks terrible, you're going
to have to talk to your design team
because it's like, you can't fake it.
They're going to be like,
why is this brown?
[LAUGH] Because I was trying to make
it match contrast ratios, you can't.
But sometimes you can just tweak
it enough, so let's go see.
This element is try-go, so
if I go to inspect related node, and
I go back over to the styles.
If I lose it somehow,
I can go control-click and inspect it.
So I know this element has an issue.
This orange color, nice, it worked.
So Chrome has a contrast tool.
It doesn't always work.
I think it has to do with
where the background is,
like what element it's set on.
It's very murky to me why it
works sometimes it doesn't, but
this time it worked, excellent.
So it shows me this ratio.
I didn't mean to open that.
There's a little caret here,
I can expand it.
So there's double A, it needs to meet 4.5.
If you're really like swinging for
the fences and
you want to hit triple A,
which is like a higher standard,
most companies or organizations don't go
for that, that would be seven to one.
It would mean more people
could see the colors, but
AA is kind of the agreed upon standard for
the most part.
So this contrast picker,
the reason I love it is I can drag.
I can go like this.
Drag down the colors.
I'm going the wrong direction.
So if I need to get up to 4.5 to one,
I'm dragging over towards the white.
And I just got it and
I can barely perceive a difference.
So this one I could fiddle with, I think,
without having to go back to my team.
See if they notice.
This is a ask for
forgiveness situation, I think.
You just sort of change your color
config to something that passes.
And then every element that had that
color would benefit from it and
you could fix it in one go, hopefully.
Let's see what the selector looks like.
So this color,
it's used on multiple elements for sure.
SoundCloud classically looks like maybe
they're doing a redesign or something so
sometimes that's hard you're like our
customer facing site is being phased out.
It has all these accessibility problems
but we're re-platforming don't spend time
fixing the old thing, it's like well,
but it's not going to be usable until
you re-platform, so
whether you get time to fix.
Fix it or not is unclear, it'll depend.
But if you can fix it with one
little tweak of a hex color value or
something, maybe you
can slide it in there.
So that's the Chrome tool,
when it works, it's great.
It doesn't always work, so
I'm gonna show you the one in Firefox.
>> Student 1: Would it
really look like triple A?
>> Marcy: Good question.
So for triple A,
that might be harder to get away with.
I love these lines.
So the lines,
the 4.5 is this lower line, and
then if I drag it all the way
over to 7 to meet the 7 ratio,
it's pretty noticeable.
It's like a washed out orange-white, so
I don't think I could get away with
that [LAUGH] without people noticing.
I shipped a feature doing
exactly this last week,
where I tweaked the colors just enough,
nobody noticed.
So, sometimes that is the way to go.
And tools like this, I mean,
I think on the thing I was working on,
this color picker was not working, and
I sure missed it because it's
very helpful when it works.
Otherwise, you're changing the color
slightly in the direction you want on
the regular, like this color picker,
without the ratio line,
and then you have to go test
the value manually, and it sucks.
[LAUGH] So let's go over to Firefox,
because,
>> Marcy: We'll
go see what's going on with the color.
So they have the same orange.
I don't really wanna sign in, but
hopefully I can test this
color just in the DevTools.
So I'm gonna inspect just
like I did in Chrome.
And we've got the orange color,
some rotating animation,
that is a little distracting, that is
something we're gonna talk about later.
So, I mentioned motion,
here's an example right here.
So this color, there's a border color and
a background color.
So if I click on the white, it is
showing me that the contrast ratio for
these buttons has an issue as well.
So if I click on this, so
it doesn't give me the line but
it does give me the like,,
I can drag it around and change the color.
When it's the background color
that is the thing I would change,
I might need to use other tools to do it,
cuz it only gives me the ability to
drag around on the foreground color.
But if you made the change for
the text on the other examples,
maybe that same orange color would be
the fix here too for the backgrounds.
But this tool,
like if the Chrome one isn't working,
Firefox sometimes can help a little bit.
Cuz at least the goal would be to
give you a color picker that you
can drag around on,
cuz it's pretty helpful.
>> Marcy: The accessibility inspector
in Firefox also, it has its own tab,
and this is their
accessibility tree inspector.
So it's similar, not exactly the same
as Chrome, but it still gives you
a lot of really great information
if you're a regular Firefox user.
And you could use X in Firefox as well.
>> Marcy: Cool, okay, so
our other techniques,
let's do a little bit of zooming.
So I'm gonna close out my developer tools,
and
if I zoom way in to at least 200%,
I get some horizontal scrolling.
That's not great.
So, yeah, it looks like
the whole thing has that issue.
So going past 200% can
be sort of ambitious.
I think the requirement is 200%, there's
a WCAG guideline for what's called reflow.
And so this one would fail reflow,
I would say,
because it doesn't seem like it would
be that challenging to make this scale,
like everything should just be responsive,
I don't know why it's not.
But that's how I would test that one.
I'm actually surprised that there was
an issue with that cuz that one's like,
if it's responsive,
usually that's just handled.
You might find some anomalies
that are little details, but
that looked kind of major for
how their style sheets are set up.
And with CSS Grid and Flexbox now,
you can just use modern tools and
have it apply for those situations.
It's awesome.